Well, welcome to session one.
It's not the first session of the day,
but it's number one.
We're going to have a lot of fun here.
We've got a lot of stuff to cover,
and I hope that you learned
something really valuable from
this in terms of how to create a
really complete user experience
for your application on Mac OS X.
So I want to begin by sort of defining
what the focus is for this session.
I want the focus to be
primarily on best practices.
So we're going to talk about what
are the best practices for you as you
bring your application to Mac OS X to
deliver a complete user experience.
And more specifically,
what are the actions that you need
to start to employ as a developer
in the process of developing your
product to deliver qualities in
a product that are desirable?
So everything that we talk about
really is about best practices.
And the areas I want to focus on
are areas that I see developers
having difficulty with.
So I want to help clarify some of
the issues in these areas and give
you some guidance on delivering a
great user experience in these areas.
And the first is simplifying
product installs.
The second is leveraging some
of the technologies that are
in Mac OS X for common tasks to
present a really consistent user
experience in your application.
Third thing we'll talk about
is how do you make your
application more Aqua compliant?
And I'm going to give you some very
specific tips and tricks for doing that.
And then the fourth area we'll
talk about is cross-platform design
issues that people are running into,
and I want to give you
some guidance there.
All right, let's begin with installation.
You know, from the moment a user,
a customer, purchases your product,
they're dealing, you know,
the first thing they
deal with is a package.
Now, in some cases where it's software
downloads or electronic distribution,
you're dealing with
an electronic package,
right?
A disk image or whatever.
But much software,
lots of software is delivered
through retail stores and through,
you know, traditional shopping venues.
And so there's a physical package there.
And the user experience
for me in many products,
although it's a very small part
of the product user experience,
right?
But there's nothing more
discouraging than buying a product,
paying $129 or whatever the price is,
and then fighting with the
box or the packaging to get
the software out of there.
I don't know how many times I've
opened software that developers have
sent me for review or that I've,
you know, had to look at for the
Apple Design Awards or whatever.
And I'm struggling with this box and the
CDs fly all over the place when I finally
figure out how to open the plastic,
you know, insert or whatever it is.
And so I want to encourage you,
first of all,
make your packaging easy to open.
Secondly,
make it attractive on the store shelf.
Thirdly,
clearly indicate the system requirements.
There's nothing more frustrating,
I think, for users to go to the store,
look for software for their
new computer or for their older
Macintosh and not be clear,
you know,
for it to not be clear for them to know
which product runs on their machine.
So make sure that your box
clearly communicates what
system requirements are there,
are required.
And also don't try to grow
your market by basically going,
"Well,
I'm going to buy this and I'm going
to buy that." And then you're going
to have to go through the process
of getting the product out of there.
"Well, I think it'll run on every
Macintosh." If it doesn't run on
some of the lower end Macintoshes,
make sure that that's clearly defined and
that you indicate sort of what the best
or recommended system requirements are.
Believe it or not,
there are products out there that are
not clearly communicating these things.
And last thing is,
ensure that users have everything
they need to get started.
What think about, you know your users,
what is it that they need to
have when they open the box
to get the product going?
In many cases, not much.
But in many other cases,
what I'm seeing is I open a package
and I don't get a lot of instructions
on how to get going with the product,
but I get a lot of marketing.
I get coupons for this, that,
and the other thing from third parties.
And I, personally, I find that annoying,
but, you know,
think about what your users want,
and I would recommend that that's
something you might want to avoid.
All right, software distribution.
So we talked about physical packaging,
but there's electronic packaging, right?
And in many cases,
that's how you distribute
software over the internet.
And software distribution should
be done on Mac OS X using an
internet-enabled disk image.
They are self-cleaning.
They do the right thing with Safari.
Safari downloads them,
mounts them on the desktop,
and takes care of
everything for the user.
So a lot of the hassles with downloading
stuff off the internet and then having
to figure out which uncompressed file
I need to deal with next is taken away
with internet-enabled disk images.
Talking about software downloads,
there are two areas where you can do
best practices or apply best practices.
And that relates to avoid
compressing the compressed.
Right?
How many of you have experienced this?
You're downloading a piece of software,
and you pull something off the internet,
and it's a compressed file,
and you open that up, and there's another
compressed file within it.
And even beyond that,
I've seen just the other day,
someone showed me a great example
of where it's just senseless,
multi-step, step like that,
where you've got compressed files within
compressed files within compressed files.
And in fact,
I went to a very high-profile printing
manufacturer recently to download
a device driver for the printer,
or a driver for the printer
that I'd just gotten.
And the user experience sort of
went downhill from the get-go.
I found the driver okay,
and that was great, so the web design for
the developer was fine.
But as I started to,
as I found the driver and downloaded it,
the driver name of the file that
I was downloading had nothing to
do with the printer model that
I was hoping to download it for.
So that was a great experience.
So that was the first thing.
It was like, I wasn't even sure I was
downloading the right file.
The next thing that
came was a binhex file.
And so I opened that up, and then I got a
self-extracting archive on that.
So I, you know, self-extracted that.
I got a disk image.
Right?
I opened the disk image.
Now there's a package, which is okay,
but after three or four steps like this.
And so I ran the installer,
and I had to authenticate.
That's okay.
I understand authentication
is a part in some cases.
But, you know, through the whole process,
and then I had to register,
and then I had to stick
a dongle on there.
No,
I didn't have to stick a dongle on it,
but that was the case.
And another product that I just
thought I'd throw it on here.
But you get the point, right?
Make sure that from the get-go,
the experience is great for your users.
A lot of people think about user
interface design in terms of the
controls that they put on screen
and the workflow for the user
once the app is up and running.
But I think there's a lot that goes on
before that that is equally important.
All right, so we've got the software now,
whether it's out of a package or it's,
you know,
software distributed or downloaded.
And now we're into the
installation process.
And, you know,
the guidance I would have for you is
make this as painless as possible,
right?
Allow users to decide
the install location.
I don't want my installer to decide
where the install location goes,
where the install location is.
I want to be able to
decide that for myself,
particularly in the case of applications.
In some other cases where
you're putting a driver in a
certain place in the system,
it's different.
But I'm talking about
application software.
Make sure that the user
can decide where it goes.
Avoid unnecessary authentication.
Don't just require the user to
authenticate just for the fun of it.
Okay?
Only ask for authentication if
you're installing outside of the
current logged in user's domain.
And lastly, avoid custom installers.
The best way to go with installation
for an application on Mac OS X,
out of the box, if possible,
if authentication is required,
is a drag install.
Drag install enables you to put a
background image on the folder and
communicate some things to your users
about what they can do with this,
where it needs to go,
if there is some specific
location it needs to go.
You can do some branding there.
It's very straightforward.
And it takes advantage of a technology
in Mac OS X called bundling.
If you're not familiar with bundling,
check out the system
overview documentation.
But bundling basically allows
you to take all of the magic and,
you know,
required files from your application
that the user will never interact with,
stick them inside of a folder,
and then set a bit for the finder
so that folder is treated as a
single icon and a single entity.
And from the user's point of view,
it's great because all of the complexity
of your application is hidden for them.
Use an installer if you have to.
If DragonStall doesn't cut it,
use an installer, but not a custom one.
Here we've got one that completely
is non-standard for Aqua.
It doesn't look anything like Aqua.
In fact, instead,
opt for the Mac OS X installer,
which ships as part of
every Mac OS X system,
and you can use PackageMaker
to build up the packages that
you require to be installed.
All right,
so now we've got the software installed.
Well, what next, right?
Well, there's always a setup
and configuration step,
which is at times extremely painful.
I've bought a product.
I'm your user.
I bought the product,
and I've installed this thing,
and I've got it on my system.
There's nothing more annoying
than being forced to deal with
unnecessary configuration.
And we'll talk a little bit more
about some other technologies that
are available on Mac OS X that enable
you to simplify that setup process.
But if there's anything you
can do to make the installation
more straightforward,
please do that.
Only ask the user for
help when necessary.
Don't bother the user with questions
that aren't required at that time.
Many users purchase something quickly.
They need it to insert into a
workflow or get something done,
and they don't want to be
dealing with configuration.
Get users up and running quickly.
quickly.
So for the installation here,
the best practices for installation
are focus on excellence in packaging,
provide system requirements
where possible,
or always, sorry.
Make sure the package is easy to open,
make sure it's attractive so that you can
steal sales away from the competition,
all those kind of things.
Provide simple,
straightforward installations,
and get your users up and running.
That's the key, I think,
with installation.
All right, interaction.
So user interface design,
the science of human computer action,
kind of breaks down into two disciplines.
First discipline is interaction design.
It's all about workflow.
It's all about how many clicks does
it take to accomplish a particular
action or task inside of a product.
The second area of
discipline is visual design,
the aesthetics of something on screen.
So let's talk about
interaction first of all.
And in this section,
I want to talk about some technologies
that you should think about
adopting in your Mac OS X product
to facilitate or make more consistent,
deliver consistent user experience
for a lot of the common tasks that
your users will be faced with.
First is you're hearing
a recurring theme,
I think, today.
Address Book Framework.
It's a great technology built into
Mac OS X that basically provides
system-wide contact management.
If your application deals with
anything like phone numbers,
email addresses, fax numbers, addresses,
people names, whatever,
whatever information is
associated with a contact,
it should be built upon
the Address Book Framework.
Address Book, the application,
is just a client of the framework.
Your application, too,
can be just like Address Book,
the application,
and can take advantage of
the Address Book database.
Tied in with Adder's Book Framework
is the People Picker.
We've talked about this.
I'm not going to review all the
Mac OS X State of the Union material,
by the way, but I just want to touch on
a few of these technologies.
If we're talking about
Adder's Book Framework,
the People Picker is now
available to Carbon and Cocoa,
and it enables your application
to provide a very consistent UI.
Basically,
it's the system that provides the
UI for users to pick the contacts
that your application is dealing with,
or that they need to deal with.
While we're on the topic of pickers,
there's the font picker as well.
If your app allows users to choose
fonts or glyph characteristics,
let them choose it
through the font picker.
Don't roll your own
UI around this functionality.
And then the color picker, same thing.
If your application provides
for the ability to pick colors,
this is where you need to go.
This is where users need to go.
And the advantage of using these
technologies for your users is
that users get familiar with
doing this in one application,
and they automatically can take
that experience and leverage
it inside of your application,
because it's just the same.
All right, Search Kit.
Great technology to build your
application upon if you're doing
anything related to searching,
retrieving, or summarizing documents.
There's a session later on this week
related to Search Kit in detail about
how to take advantage of this engine,
this core engine,
and something you should think about
putting into your application in
terms of doing searching for stuff.
And we provide the UI on this.
Or actually, no, sorry.
This is where we use it in the system.
You saw these slides in the
MacWisdom State of the Union.
Address Book, iCal.
Findr, FontBook.
So we're using it all over the place,
and you can too,
because we give you the UI for this.
The rounded search field is
being introduced with Panther.
It's only for searching.
Continue using the square
rectangular search edit field for
all other standard tech stuff.
And then the drop-down menu off
of this allows you to specify
the scope for your search.
All right, Apple Help,
another technology that you can leverage
to deliver a really consistent experience
for reviewing online documentation.
The cool thing about Help,
and we'll talk about this
more again later on this week,
the cool thing about Help is
that it's built on WebKit,
so there's tremendous performance
improvements this year in Panther.
And Apple Help allows you to put
your Help content on remote servers.
So even though your development
may have finished and you've gone
up to production of your CDs,
your Help teams can continue to finalize
the Help content and store it on
remote servers that users will actually
access automatically once they start
running your Help through Help Viewer.
So Apple Help is for user assistance.
Rendezvous, we were talking about setup,
right?
Setup and configuration are
critical that they be as
simplified as much as possible.
Rendezvous is one of those technologies
that we've talked about a fair
bit today and last year as well,
but this technology enables
you to auto-configure,
and it's a really cool technology.
You can detect IP devices that are out
there that might work with your product.
So leverage Rendezvous to...
To take your users,
take away from the users the
need to type in an IP address.
If your application today
requires users to type in
IP addresses to get up and running,
then you should seriously be looking
at a rendezvous and figuring out
how that can help you get away
from forcing users to do that.
Universal Access.
Building on the accessibility
APIs that are built into Mac OS X,
using standard system controls,
you can deliver your product and deliver
a very consistent user experience to
users who are in many ways disabled,
or in a variety of ways disabled.
So it'll also help your product
be Section 508 compliant.
And lastly, Mac OS X provides a lot of
international technologies.
Your application should be Unicode-based
so that all customers in worldwide
markets can take advantage of the
functionality that your product provides.
All right, so we're still on the
topic of interaction,
which is the workflow of the application.
And there's a critical component
to this part of the design of your
product that often is overlooked,
and that is feedback and communication.
How do you convey information
back to your users?
Well, this is not the way to do it.
Right?
It's important to report errors,
but it's really critical that if
you do report an error that you
say something useful to the user.
Here's a sample alert dialog
from an application on Mac OS X.
Great application, actually.
And thank you to the developer
who brought it to the platform.
But in this particular case,
I want to use this as an example to
point out some of the errors that
I see other developers making as well.
So here we've got a standard dialog
that talks about an error condition
and basically asks two questions.
Do you want to import the structure?
Yes.
And then the Yes button is Yes, Continue.
So at least it should have been Yes,
Import.
Or do you want to display
the text "No"? "No,
cancel"? Is it "No,
display the text" or "No,
cancel"? I don't know.
I'm confused.
Better way to do this, oh,
not to mention the fact
that there's a wrong icon.
So when you're doing
alerts in your application,
make sure to use standard alert
calls to deliver a consistent
appearance for your alerts.
If you are doing them manually,
the alerts manually,
make sure that the icon that's
displayed is your application icon.
And only in the case
where there's destructive,
you know, some destruction of data
that's going to occur,
do you want to badge
it with a caution icon,
which is the small yield sign.
Alright, so the right way to report
errors is basically through
this example from the finder.
So what's right about this?
Well, first of all, a good error message
has three components.
First of all, what happened?
In this case,
the iDisk cannot be accessed.
The second element is, why did it happen?
Well, it's because the user didn't
have a .Mac member name and
password in system preferences.
Okay, so there was an error.
What happened?
Why did it happen?
And the third component is,
what can the user do about it?
And that's typically in the smaller text,
and then directly associated with
the button that the user would
pick to actually solve the problem.
So three important parts
to an error message.
What happened?
Why did it happen?
What can the user do about it?
And finally, notice the application icon
that showed up in this case.
All right, and finally,
on the topic of interaction,
I just want to leave a few tips
of things that I pass on to a
lot of developers as I meet with
them and review their products.
First of all,
I think it's critical that no matter
what audience you're focused at,
whether it's an enterprise professional,
enterprise IT person,
whether it's a consumer-level iMac user,
sort of entry-level iMac user,
it doesn't matter what your audience is,
it's important that your product
delivers solutions and not just
be a container for features.
What's great about iPhoto
and iTunes and iMovie,
et cetera?
It's not so much that they're
full-featured applications and they
do everything that every user would
possibly want in every market segment.
It's that what they do,
they do extremely well,
and they typically do the things
that most people want to do.
Your application can be the same.
It doesn't have to do
everything necessarily,
but what it does, it needs to do very,
very well.
And that's all about interaction design.
It needs to lead the user
through the task at hand.
And these are hard problems to solve.
It's important that you know your user.
Many developers are seeking
as big a market share as
possible and are trying to aim,
pluck a feature from here for
these users and stick in another
feature over here for this crowd.
We've got a sales opportunity over here,
so let's throw in this and
that and the other feature.
And the problem is that
at the end of that,
you get product bloat.
And really, in many cases,
there's nobody that's overseeing the
overall user experience of that product.
How do all those features
operate together?
How is the data viewed
and interacted with?
And these are difficult things to solve,
but it's something that needs to be done.
So make sure that you know your user.
Target your products at
a very specific market.
That way,
you can tune the product to that market's
needs and that market's workflow.
Know your application.
Understand exactly what your application
was designed to do and don't cobble on
extra features for a particular market
segment that really don't match what
your application is capable of doing.
Avoid crowding toolbars.
Toolbars in Mac OS X,
you'll see in the Finder, for example,
have-- there are shortcuts
to things like applications,
home, you know, documents,
this sort of thing.
And those are quick shortcuts to
things that are multiple clicks away.
Your toolbar should really be
shortcuts to functionality in your
application that your users might want.
Provide things in toolbars that enable
users to get at-- to sort of make
visible things in your toolbars that
users might not necessarily discover,
but that once they do use it,
solve a lot of-- save
a lot of time for them.
Don't put things in toolbars
that have keyboard shortcuts
already associated with them.
You're going to overcrowd your toolbars.
And it's a lot easier for a user
to learn a keyboard shortcut,
in many cases,
and they already know many of them,
than to populate-- you know,
create an icon for that that's yet
different from another icon for Save,
for example,
or New from any other application.
So New, Open, Save, Print, Cut, Copy,
Paste, all of those things that have
standard standard keyboard shortcuts,
they don't need icons and menu bars.
And then in the process of developing,
simplify your product,
work out the best UI you
believe is required,
and then simplify again.
It's a difficult thing to do,
but focus on your users.
Know your users,
know what your application can do,
and aim towards that.
All right,
so best practices for interaction.
Leverage relevant technologies.
Just went through a kind of a laundry
list of some relevant technologies
for some of your applications,
but choose the best technologies for
the customers you're going after and
based upon what your application does.
Take advantage of what's already in
the system to deliver a consistent
user experience for common tasks
that users are going to be faced
across a multitude of applications.
What they know from one application,
they can then apply to yours.
report errors properly,
and deliver solutions, not just features.
All right,
so I said that human and computer
interaction is kind of-- or
user interface design is broken
into sort of two disciplines,
right?
Interaction design, visual design.
And I'd like to take some time
now to talk about the tips and
tricks for delivering a really
great layout or delivering great
Aqua compliance in your application.
So it's critical that your
application focus on clean design.
As you work out the UI and the
appearance of your product on screen,
it's highly important that you focus on
cleanliness and space and room so that
people can find what they're looking for.
A cluttered interface is
very hard to navigate.
It's hard to find what I'm looking
for when stuff isn't related or it's
not grouped or it's laid out poorly.
Rather, take something like this.
And when you apply the layout guidelines,
you get something that's a lot cleaner
and much more appealing to look at.
And if you do this kind of exercise
across your whole application,
the effect is dramatic.
You don't need to add a single
feature to your product,
but just clean up the UI if
it's already on Mac OS X,
and you'll have a brand new product.
So, let's talk about how to do that.
And to do that,
I want to take an example dialogue,
let's call it our patient,
and we're going to go through
the process of operating on this
patient to provide a facelift.
And we're going to end up with this.
So we're going to go
from what's on the left,
we're going to transition to the right.
I want to talk through the exact
steps that we went through to get
that from the start to finish.
First of all, button placement.
I see this over and over and over,
a violation of this most
basic Macintosh UI guideline.
Action buttons go in
the bottom right corner.
They're spaced by a
specific amount of spacing,
and if you don't get that exactly right,
that's okay,
but it's important that they're,
that the cancels to the left of
the right of the okay button,
I'm sorry.
It's important that the OK button is OK,
capital O, capital K, not OK,
or hunky-dory, or, you know,
something like that.
I'm going to use orange in the
next series of slides to highlight
areas that are white space or that
are focal point for the slide.
So here,
we're using white space to delineate,
to create natural dividers between
the different groupings on the dialog.
So we don't need lines.
We don't need hard physical lines.
We can just use white
space to accomplish that.
It's important to group related items.
Now, in the dialogue that we saw earlier,
in our patient dialogue,
there was group boxes that were used.
And in Mac OS X,
I'll talk about group boxes in Panther,
but group boxes are great
for grouping things together,
but in many cases,
it's not necessary to use a group box,
per se.
Mac OS X, or in Aqua,
we introduced this idea that you
take a group box and eliminate
the sides and the bottom,
and you could just use the top of the
group box to group things together.
So here, we're doing that.
Basically,
we got rid of the group box completely.
What that does is it just
kind of lightens the UI.
And in many cases,
white space as a divider is
perfectly sufficient for creating,
you know, putting together what we want.
If you're going to do
that single top divider,
which is the group title and
then the single horizontal line,
make sure that the horizontal
line is aligned with the
baseline of the group label.
So, Mac OS X provides for the ability to
group related items by using white
space or the grouping title and line.
But also, in Panther,
we've introduced the group box.
And the group box is not
something that we've,
you know,
the issue we had with the group box
historically was that it was these
hard black lines around the edge.
And until we solved
that appearance issue,
we really weren't pushing group boxes.
So, if you want to continue
using group boxes,
go right ahead.
They're available in Panther,
but they now have an etched
in appearance and have a much,
much finer appearance
than Mac OS X Panther.
All right, well,
how do you deal with alignment
of objects on screen?
Well,
there are some basic tips that will roll
into the human interface guidelines,
but that I want to talk
to you about today.
The first thing to remember is,
in a dialog box, for example,
or whether it's a modalist
dialog or whether it's a sheet,
in any window that's got
labels alongside of controls,
make sure that you right-align
the labels along the colons,
if they're stacked vertically,
for example.
The next thing is you want to
left align all of the controls
that are labeled by those labels.
And then in most cases where you
have a bunch of stacked objects,
where you've got controls
that are labeled and they're
stacked on top of each other,
it's sufficient and it looks
good to extend all of those
controls to be the same width.
Now, that's not always the case,
and it's very difficult to
roll out very hard and fast
guidelines for some of this stuff.
In this particular case,
there are some pop-up
menus here that may have,
in the case where they
were numeric maybe,
there would be a specific length to
that number that could be put in there.
And it wouldn't make sense for
that pop-up menu to be really wide.
So moving the pop-up menu itself
to be shorter would be fine.
But what provides a very cluttered
appearance is when the width of
controls and a bunch of stacked
items are kind of going in and
out and in and out and in and out.
It actually looks a lot better when
stuff is aligned equally on each side.
Okay,
there's another question that comes up,
and that is, well, okay,
if I've got a group of radio buttons,
for example, that have child objects,
you know, when I enable or disable
one of the radio buttons,
the child elements enable or disable.
At least that's the way it's
supposed to work if options
aren't available to users.
The question is,
how do you align the items
that are children items?
And wherever possible,
continue that alignment of colons
for all the labels across the dialog,
and make sure that the label of
the child object doesn't extend
to the left beyond the edge,
sort of the, you know,
the edge of the left of the parent label.
Do you understand?
So the diagram there,
tried to diagram this, and hopefully that
communicates what we want here.
There's this other concept in
Aqua which was misunderstood
when we first introduced Aqua,
and that was this idea that people
thought everything in Aqua was centered.
Well, that's clearly not the case.
What it is is that things
are center-equalized.
So within a panel,
within a system prep pane,
or within a dialog box, or a sheet,
or a tab pane, take all of the contents
of that tab pane,
follow the guidelines
we just talked about,
aligning labels and aligning
objects and all that sort of stuff,
and then create sort of an invisible
box around it and center all of that
stuff inside of the pane itself.
So in this particular example,
you've got the center line going
down the center of the object,
and then the dotted line
is kind of the frame,
the invisible frame that's there.
Here's another example that's not
related to our current patient,
but just another dialogue
that I showed earlier,
which shows the same idea, right?
You've got the content of
this pane centered within
the area of the dialogue box.
Okay, so what a transformation.
I mean, some basic things, white space,
alignment of objects,
some symmetry introduced,
and there's a major transition,
transformation that takes place.
And if you can do this to all
of the dialog boxes or interface
elements in your application,
the app will look really, really great.
Another thing that I see as
I work with developers to
help them create applications
that look better on Mac OS X,
easier to use, et cetera,
is just poor use of labels.
Labels tend to be replicated
across a dialog box,
or there's lots of redundancy
in the text on a dialog.
And one great exercise once you're in
the development cycle at some point
is to get a technical writer from your
company or get somebody who's good
with the language that you're shipping
your product in to look at the UI and
make sure that the labels aren't highly
repetitive and that you're not overusing
certain words again and again and again.
Here's a case where we've got a
dialog box from a product shipping on
Mac OS X where the word argument or
arg is used like eight or nine times.
Anytime you see a word used over
and over and over in a button label,
for example,
the question you should ask yourself is,
well, wait a second, are those,
if they all relate to the same object,
and I need to put the
object name in the button,
then maybe they're not closely, you know,
positioned, they're not close enough,
they're not positioned close
enough to the object or
whatever it is that they affect.
Another thing that I see a
lot is repeating menu items.
New layer, delete layer, you know,
print layer, save layer, whatever layer.
And sometimes those repeating items
aren't in a menu called layer.
If they've got enough of them,
they could actually move maybe
into a menu called layer,
and then you could just have new, print,
save, or whatever.
I mean, those aren't necessarily
things you do with a layer,
but you get my point.
If there's repeating objects,
think about whether the UI is
communicating enough about what
those objects or those buttons do.
And you can often eliminate a lot
of this redundancy and repetition.
So another problem here is that the
title of the window is not very useful.
The argv wizard dialog.
There's room on this dialog box for,
it's actually an assistant,
supposed to help me through the
process of setting up something
that the software's going to do,
but the difficulty here is that
there's an area for help text,
but there's no helpful text there.
It's basically just yet another
repetition of the same thing.
I need to, you know,
you the user need to put in an
argument or something below.
If you're going to provide help text,
make sure that it's helpful.
So if we clean this thing up
and apply the same guidelines
we talked about previously,
we get something that's
quite substantially changed.
So we've got better,
we've removed the duplication on labels.
Just got new edit and remove.
We've got a better title on the window.
Now, you know,
the better title means something in the
context of what this application does,
but make sure that the titles of
your dialog boxes have meaning in
the context of your application.
And just let me diverge for a minute and,
and, uh,
Go down a small side road here.
One of the most,
the first guidelines we ever
published on the Macintosh back in,
you know, the first days,
and it's still true today,
is the fact that the title of a dialog
box should be the same text as the menu
item text that brings that dialog box up.
So if there's a menu item
that says preferences,
dot, dot, dot,
it should bring up a preferences dialog,
a dialog that's titled preferences.
It shouldn't bring up
something else that says,
you know,
application setup configuration options.
Helpful text, you can't read it.
Buttons at the bottom, the navigation,
standard navigation, forward,
back buttons, et cetera.
All right,
and in the chapter of visual design,
there is always the topic of using
standard controls and appearance.
And why this is critical is because,
as you saw in the Mac Weston
State of the Union,
right, Scott Forstall showed you
how we've been tuning Aqua.
And we're going to continue to do
that from one revision to the next.
If you're using standard system controls,
you're going to pick up those
changes automatically with
no extra effort on your part.
If you're rolling your own,
it means every time you've got to get
back in sync with what we're doing.
If you can even simulate some
of the things that we might do.
So it's important to use standard
system controls for that reason.
The other reason is you
get things for free,
like screen readers just work if
it's a standard system control.
And a variety of other benefits.
So let's talk about using
system controls and appearance.
You saw that with Panther,
we've rolled out three
different types of controls,
or three different sizes now.
And this is based on developer feedback,
primarily for high-end CAD CAM products.
And 3D modeling tools
that have got a ton of UI,
and they want to fit it into a very
small amount of space on screen.
We introduced many controls.
Be careful how you use these.
What we don't want to see is standard
dialogs and standard sheets within
your application using mini-controls.
If something is modal,
like a standard modal dialog or a sheet,
where the user is focused on
what's going on in that sheet,
there's no reason to use small
controls or mini-controls.
A standard-sized control is perfectly
acceptable because it doesn't matter
how big that sheet or dialog box is,
because the user is focused
on what they're doing there.
It's a message I've given
over and over at WWDC.
Don't mix the sizes of controls.
Don't use small text with big controls
or big controls with small text,
etc.
Match everything.
But the mini-control is pretty exciting,
I think,
for some up-and-coming applications.
And so, as you saw before,
you can take a palette, on-screen,
utility window that your
application might use.
When you use the mini-controls,
you get something that's
significantly smaller,
which is really great.
And the difference in size is there.
See, the problem with not using system
controls in appearance is not only,
you know, do you not get things for free,
but you basically look
like a freak in some cases.
Here's an application shipping on 10
today that just is totally non-standard.
What's wrong with it?
Well, let's see, non-standard labels.
Why the blue background?
I mean, if you really want to
emphasize the labels,
maybe bold it.
But even in that case,
I would hesitate to do that.
Non-standard display font,
Geneva 9 being used
across the board here.
Lucida Grande is the display
font by default on Mac OS X that
you should be using.
It's antialiased, looks great,
different sizes.
What else is wrong?
Well, non-standard list backgrounds.
Lists on Mac OS X,
scrolling areas of text
have a white background.
They don't have the corduroy pinstriping.
"Misplaced buttons.
They're misplaced in the context
of how this application works,
and I don't want to take the time to
speak to exactly how the app works,
but suffice it to say it's an
accounting product that I have
to set up my chart of accounts,
and then I've got to put in
user passwords and access
to different menu items,
and I have to go through this tremendous,
highly complex configuration
setup process to get this
thing even up and running,
and it's just crazy."
On the topic of system
controls and appearance,
there's one more thing.
What about metal?
All right.
So here's the finder, new finder, right?
iTunes, iCal, Address Book, Mail.
Mail's not metal anymore.
Why not?
Well, the guidelines are as follows.
Metal is to be used with care.
It is absolutely for digital lifestyle,
digital hub-related applications,
so iTunes for the MP3 players,
iPhoto for digital cameras,
iMovie for video cameras.
Anything fitting into the
digital hub can be metal.
If your application
fits in the digital hub,
it can be metal.
actually is metal because
it links to a cell phone.
[Transcript missing]
Material,
it's a heavy enough material that when
you've got playlist-type functionality,
it enables you to visually separate
these related lists of content.
And you'll see,
as you mock up your own applications,
notice that the playlist applications
that Apple has are using Metal,
and there's very good reason there.
Hopefully you'll also notice
as you install Panther that
there's a lot more consistency in
terms of how we're using Metal.
Mail is no longer Metal.
Mail is a real standard Aqua application.
For example, so layout and appearance,
what are the best practices for this
area of the design of your product?
Focus on clean design.
It really matters.
From the get-go,
when I open the package and start
running the piece of software,
now I'm, you know, I mean,
this is my job,
so I look at this kind of stuff,
but products that are messy,
that have a cluttered UI,
and that are poorly designed visually,
make me feel like the
code quality is of equal,
like the code is of equal quality.
Don't get your code judged based on
the appearance of the application.
It's like anything in our world, right?
We buy anything,
and if it looks crummy or it, you know,
doesn't look high quality,
then we start to wonder whether
the product actually does what
the vendor is claiming it does.
Follow the Aqua layout guidelines.
We don't publish these
numbers for nothing.
We've thought long and
hard about these things.
Use Interface Builder,
and if you're not nib-based yet,
you should start making that
transition to being nib-based.
Nibs are the files that
interface builder produces.
If you're not nib-based and
want to continue doing what
you're currently doing,
then at least switch into Interface
Builder to design the UI and then
take out the numbers from there.
But my recommendation would
be switch to Interface Builder
and start being nib-based.
It's available.
Carbon has support for it.
AppKit just picks it
up for free in Cocoa,
right?
Use standard system
controls and appearances.
A lot of benefits there.
And don't abuse Metal.
There are good guidelines out there.
We're going to publish those,
and please stick with them.
So finally,
the last area for best practices
is cross-platform design.
And this is a thing,
here's a statement that
I run up against a fair bit,
because there's a lot of software
coming to Mac OS X from other platforms.
Well, you see John, I can't,
we can't really do it that way because,
you know, the UI needs to be exactly the
same across all the platforms
that our product runs on.
Well, it's a myth.
It's basically not, it's just not true.
It's the same thing as saying that,
you know, one size fits all.
Well, that's not the case.
It's the same thing as trying to
dress for two types of weather.
Try to wear your snowboarding
outfit when you go windsurfing.
It doesn't cut it.
You cannot be doing the same
thing in both places or in
different weather conditions.
You can't dress for
all weather conditions.
So for example,
here's a developer that has chosen
to go their own way and not deliver
a Mac OS X compliant appearance.
Well, it ain't Aqua.
And it isn't Windows either.
Wrong wardrobe.
Right?
You've got a Mac OS X application with
buttons that are clipped at the bottom,
which is just inexcusable.
To me, that says,
here's fit and finish that
was just left on the table.
Right?
No polish was applied here.
And also, we've got a tree diagram,
you know,
the hierarchy of files here that
just is straight off of a PC.
And it might work on Windows,
and that's fine,
because that's the way that the
appearance is on another platform,
or there's maybe another, you know,
OS that that appearance is acceptable on.
But for a Mac user who's navigating
a hierarchical diagram like that,
that's not their standard
expected appearance.
They're expecting something
like List View and Finder.
Here's something dressed for failure.
Taking MDI, Multiple Document Interface,
and moving it onto Mac OS X.
Mac OS X users expect,
and many of you are probably
working with two monitor desktops,
right?
You've got two systems connected,
or two monitors on your machine.
You're moving windows
from one to the other.
The limits of window movement are
basically the size of your desktop.
With MDI,
while it's supported on Mac OS X through
the Java interface primarily,
this is who I'm seeing doing this,
while it's supported for
compatibility with Java,
it's just not a behavior that's
consistent with the overall
user experience on Mac OS X.
So the proper appearance for this is,
don't constrain document windows
to some parent window paradigm.
But make sure your docking
windows just live on the desktop.
The parent window is the desktop.
Let users move them around and
interleave them with other applications.
That's how the window layering
model works on Mac OS X.
All right, close but yet so far.
I mean, you know, Aqua widgets,
the right text, but my soul,
I have no idea what I'm
supposed to do here.
I spend all my time reading
the labels in this prep pane,
and I don't know what I'm supposed to do
or why even I'm asked for these things.
We get back to setup and configuration,
right?
Make sure to only ask your users
for things that you absolutely
need to know from them that
you cannot figure out yourself.
You know your users.
You know what they're trying to
accomplish and what they're working on.
You know what their workflow is.
And you know what your
application is capable of doing.
Make intelligent choices for the user.
Don't force the user to do that.
One more thing.
on the cross-platform topic,
file name extensions.
Great way to ensure
compatibility between files,
between multiple OSs, right?
Users in heterogeneous environments
are moving documents back and forth.
Mac OS X fits into that
world a whole lot better than
earlier versions of Mac OS did.
What does that mean for you,
the developer?
A couple things.
First of all, the save panel has a hide
extension checkbox that the
system provides for you.
Make sure you're taking
advantage of launch services
APIs to do the right thing.
The system will set or hide that
checkbox based on what the user types.
Basically, the rule for file name
extensions in Mac OS X is
what you type is what you see.
If you type an extension,
you'll see an extension.
If you don't type an extension,
you'll never see that extension.
to file extension, okay?
And it's on a per file basis.
So, as a result of that,
the choice is in the user's hand.
Therefore,
make sure that you show the proper
display name for a file in your UI,
whether it's the document title,
or whether it's some, you know, status,
dialog box that shows status
or information about a
document or what have you,
anything,
any UI that shows information about a
document should show the display name.
There's a set of APIs in
Mac OS X called Launch Services,
and you can say, "Hey, Launch Services,
with this file system object, you know,
file on system, what's its display name?"
And Launch Services will know whether
the extension should be shown or not,
and just pass you the right string back.
So here's a file that
has no extension on it,
or at least that's not visible,
and here's the same file with
the extension being shown.
So the user typed it one way or
the user typed it the other way.
Make sure your application respects that,
because that's what the user wanted.
So best practices for
cross-platform design,
a lot of things.
Be consistent, yet platform adaptive.
So what users really want is the same
functionality in the same locations,
but they want the system appearance from
the platform that they're running on.
So in other words,
it's not that they want the pref panel,
the preferences dialog,
to look exactly like it
does on some other platform.
They want the same options to be
available in the preference dialog,
and they want them to
be in the same tabs,
for example.
Thank you.
Provide identical functionality
between the platforms.
Don't deliver an inferior
product on Mac OS X.
There's stuff available in Mac OS X now
that can enable you to take your
product to a whole new level in
terms of overall functionality and
connectivity and user experience.
Deliver the
platform-appropriate appearance.
Make sure you're leveraging
standard system controls,
right, to get the Aqua appearance,
look and feel.
Platform behaviors.
For example, drag and drop.
Drag and drop on
Mac OS works a certain way.
Make sure that your application
fits into that world and it
accepts a drag from the desktop,
if that's appropriate for it to do that,
given the workflow users might have.
Leverage platform strengths.
Wherever possible,
take advantage of really cool
technologies on Mac OS X.
Some of them don't relate
to user experience,
but many do.
If you're in education, higher ed,
there's some good reasons for using text.
We have a great synthesizer on
Mac OS X that can speak back text
and save your application from
having to store digital audio.
You can reduce the size
of your footprint on a CD,
for example, and speak back text in a
very intelligible voice.
There are other technologies.
Address book.
Don't write your own, you know,
contact management system.
Leverage address book.
So leverage the relevant technologies.
Embrace file name extensions
and show the display name.
And lastly,
avoid delivering a lowest common
denominator user experience.
The problem that I see in many cases with
cross-platform applications is they're
not leveraging platform strengths.
And yeah, I'm standing up here for Apple,
encouraging you to leverage
platform strengths from Mac OS X,
but the same is true for Windows,
if you're delivering on Mac and Windows.
If you deliver a lowest common
denominator user experience,
your Windows users are
going to suffer as well.
So do what you can with the
architecture of your product to take
advantage of the strengths that are
on the platform and deliver what the
users on that platform really want.
Finally,
where do you go for more resources here?
Well, a really great place to go and
remember is developer.apple.com/ue,
which is the user experience portal.
There's links to piles of
information about address book
and speech and help technologies,
et cetera.
There's some great links to stories of
peers of yours who have decided to go
out the extra mile and pull out all the
stops and take full advantage of Aqua.
And their stories tell about the
experience and their learning and how
it affected their business positively,
and lots of other great resources there.
Secondly, always consult the human
interface guidelines.
We've got a new version
coming for Panther,
and it's going to include a lot of
the stuff I've talked about today,
as well as, you know,
as we figure out the
fine details of Panther,
we'll include a lot of that
information as it's relevant for you.
Another thing that I didn't talk about
but that relates to the visual appearance
of your application is the icon design.
What do toolbar icons look like?
What is your application,
the application icon itself,
the one that sits in the dock,
what does that look like?
Does it fit into the world of Mac OS X?
What do your document icons look like?
A lot of these things need to be redone
or done in the first place for Mac OS X,
and in many cases,
developers don't have the
resources in-house to do that.
If that's your case,
there are some great resources
that are linked to Mac OS X.
I think you can see off of the
user experience portal of companies
that can help you do this.
One of them is Icon Factory.
They're here on site, I think, today.
I don't know if the other companies are.
If they are,
feel free to stop in and work with them.
These guys do great work,
and their expertise is icon
design and visual design.
Their expertise is in programming.
That's your job.
But go to the experts
for some of this stuff.
And lastly, work with me.
Take my email address down.
Contact me after the conference.
I probably do three UI reviews a week,
which is where I sit down with developers
for an hour or up to a whole day,
depending on what my schedule allows.
And I can look at every menu,
every dialog box, every document window,
every aspect of your
product from installation,
packaging, through installation,
through configuration, through operation,
and help you craft that product and
make it a whole lot easier to use.
And lastly, work with me.
Take my email address down.
Contact me after the conference.
I probably do three UI reviews a week,
which is where I sit down with developers
for an hour or up to a whole day,
depending on what my schedule allows.
And I can look at every menu,
every document window,
and help you craft that product and
make it a whole lot easier to use.
And lastly, work with me.
Take my email address down.
Contact me after the conference.
I probably do three UI reviews a week,
which is where I sit down with developers
for an hour or up to a whole day,
depending on what my schedule allows.
And I can look at every menu,
every document window,
and help you craft that product and
make it a whole lot easier to use.